# Project---CYBER-ATTACK-DETECTION-MODEL-FOR-INTRUSION-DETECTION-USING-MACHINE-LEARNING-TECHNIQUE
<br>

#### Abstract
<br>

<p align="justify">
A network intrusion is an unauthorized penetration of a computer in your enterprise or an address in your assigned domain. Some intrusions are simply meant to let you know the intruder was there, defacing your Web site with various kinds of messages or crude images. Others are more malicious, seeking to extract critical information on either a one-time basis or as an ongoing parasitic relationship that will continue to siphon off data until it’s discovered. An Intrusion Detection System (IDS) is a device or software application that monitors a network for malicious activity or policy violations. Signature-based IDS is the detection of attacks by looking for specific patterns, such as byte sequences in network traffic, or known malicious instruction sequences used by malware. Anomaly-based intrusion detection systems were primarily introduced to detect unknown attacks, in part due to the rapid development of malware. <br>
The major problems in the current Intrusion Detection Systems are that: Although signature-based IDS can easily detect known attacks, it is difficult to detect new attacks, for which no pattern is available. While the anomaly-based intrusion detection approach enables the detection of previously unknown attacks, it may suffer from the time-consumption during detection process that degrades the performance of IDS’s.
To overcome these challenges of detecting new attacks and the problem of time-consumption during detection, we put forth an automated approach that can repetitively extract attack signatures and evaluate these signatures based on the detection rules out of complex data and large network data volumes. In a large dataset not, all features contribute to represent the traffic, therefore reducing and selecting a number of adequate features improves the speed and accuracy of the intrusion detection system. In our project, a feature selection mechanism has been proposed which aims to eliminate non-relevant features as well as identify the features which will contribute to improve the detection rate, based on the score each feature have established during the selection process. To achieve that objective, a recursive feature elimination process will be employed and associated with a decision tree-based classifier. <br> </p>

